[Music]
now ever been in that awkward situation
when you're in a room with people you
barely know and no one knows what to say
of course you have the silence seems
endless well why don't you tell everyone
why snow crunches or white escalators
have brushes along the edges or some
other no less exciting facts like these
sloths are the slowest animals in the
world and I'm not only talking about how
they move it takes these sleepy mammals
up to a month to digest a single leaf
most of them also go to the bathroom
just once a week for comparison
depending on the kind of food people
need just 12 to 48 hours to eat a meal
digest it and get rid of the waste the
burning sensation you have in your mouth
after eating Chili Peppers is caused by
a particular chemical compound in them
it tricks your sensory nerves into
believing they're being burned some
small birds and insects see the world in
slow-mo because they process information
too quickly for some big animals on the
other hand time is literally flying by
because they need more time to perceive
information if you think your cat's love
to catch some Z's what will you say
about koalas these marsupials sleep from
18 to 22 hours a day they spend a lot of
energy digesting their high fiber food
and napping is a great way to top this
energy up have you ever got chills while
listening to music it was your brain
releasing dopamine a chemical compound
that causes pleasure
you know those tall white hats chefs
where they're called tokes and the
number of pleats on such a hat which is
traditionally 100 signifies a chef's
experience for example the number of
recipes they can use to cook eggs now if
you're allergic to cats
consider this cats can also be allergic
to you the only reason this allergy
doesn't show so often or isn't that
promise is that you don't shed as much
irritating hair and skin as they do
elevators ding when they're at your
floor to inform you about their arrival
if you listen carefully though you might
notice that some elevators produce a
different number of dings usually one
ding means the elevator is going up and
two dings that it's traveling down
continental plates keep drifting at the
same speed your fingernails grow an
underground activity that makes them
move also causes volcanic eruptions and
earthquakes in total tectonic plates end
up traveling about two inches a year
well you've probably noticed that the
culprit is outside the louder the snow
crunches onto your feet it happens
because when the snow compresses teeny
ice grains rub against each other the
lower the temperature the greater the
friction between the ice grains and the
louder the crunching sound is hey snow
can hold it down over there Thanks adult
cats only meow to communicate with us
humans kittens can be out at their moms
but grown cats don't interact with each
other this way scientists have even
found that these animals are great
manipulators when it comes to cat human
dialogue cats can change the pitch of
their meows so that they sound more like
crying babies they've long figured out
that this way they get more food and
attention a reindeers eyes change color
from gold in the summer to baby blue in
the winter such a color shift improves
the animals vision because it influences
the way the light gets reflected through
the retina escalator brushes weren't
designed to clean our shoes
they were invented for much more
important safety reasons you see
escalators tend to break when people
stand too close to their edges between
the side of an escalator and the wall
there's a gap
it's almost unnoticeable but if
something like a piece of clothing gets
inside it may get stuck in the maze of
motors and gears then the escalator can
not only break down but also damage the
foreign object escalator brushes prevent
such accidents by scaring you away from
nearing the gap as soon as you feel the
bristles on your leg you instinctively
move away just one bolt of lightning
will provide enough energy for a to
slice toaster to work for 84,000 minutes
it's also enough time to cook almost
100,000 slices of toast really getting
goosebumps when you're frightened goes
back to the times when you could only
fend off a predator if you look scarier
than your opponent when you get
goosebumps all the tiny hairs on your
body stand up supposedly making you
bigger and more intimidating yeah that
works for me roosters can be
exceptionally loud and the question is
how do they not go deaf if this
thundering noise is coming right out of
their beaks simple they have a natural
mechanism that works as built-in
earplugs once a rooster opens its beak
and gets ready to crow its auditory
canals close off and no sound can come
in that's not quite fair is it when
glaciers are melting they're loud the
sound they produce is similar to the one
made by fizzing soft-drinks melting
icebergs or glaciers set free millions
of tiny air bubbles that have been
trapped in the ice under huge pressure
for centuries the open soft drink noise
is so loud that you can determine the
distance toward an iceberg without
seeing it the very first helicopters had
wooden rotor blades at that
fiberglass hadn't been invented yet and
wood was the best available material
strong lightweight and fatigue resistant
in 2018 scientists collected 300 frozen
prehistoric worms in the Arctic when all
the worms were defrosted two of them
woke up they started to move and even
had a meal one of the unbelievable
creatures was about 32,000 years old and
the other was almost 42,000 years old
both were fairly confused dogs can
distinguish way more smells than humans
but when it comes to tasting something
people win hands down well you can use
more than 9-thousand tastebuds your
pooch only has 1,700 by the way dogs can
identify the same for taste as people
sweet bitter sour and salty but unlike
most humans they aren't fans of salty
things other than that dogs don't appear
to be terribly picky eaters astronauts
in space have to work out no less than
two hours a day to keep their body
strong and like us down here on earth
they also sweat while exercising but
because of the weightlessness in space
astronauts sweat doesn't roll down their
skin
it forms salty blobs that float around
and cling to the body and aren't you
glad I shared that with you tree rings
can not only tell you how old the tree
is but also let you know how the weather
changed during the tree's lifetime tree
rings are thinner during drought years
and wider when there was a lot of rain
cat owners are all too familiar with the
situation when you call for your pet and
it doesn't respond no you aren't being
paranoid
your cat does choose to ignore you it
can recognize its name perfectly well
but often doesn't feel obligated to
respond to your call well at any given
moment around 2,000 thunderstorms are
happening in different places on earth
and if we add up one full year this
number will be more than 16 million
there are all kinds of weird fears and
phobias out there
and dextra phobia is one of them people
with this fear get scared by objects on
their right side
dextra phobia can also be an
overwhelming fear of right handedness no
Kenny you can't hum while holding your
nose you're probably making some bizarre
sounds but it's definitely not humming
the trick is that when you hum you make
sort of a prolonged M sound but it's
created when air moves through your
nasal passages when you close your nose
the air can't escape and no humming
sound is produced at least not for long
so there are your icebreakers try them
out and let me know how it goes
in the comments if you learned something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life